what is artificial intelligence hello my
name is richard kirschner and today
we're going to go over what is
artificial intelligence one example of
today's artificial intelligence is a
smart home so welcome to my smart home
smart homes are run by artificial
intelligence let's have a look at some
of the key features of a smart house
home appliances are voice controlled
sensors adjust lights and air coolers
according to the climate security
systems can detect movement outside and
worn at the residence all the appliances
are interconnected to each other and can
detect vehicles in the driveway and let
the owner know home appliances can be
controlled remotely through the phone
now this is just one example in today's
world so what's in it for you today
today we're going to cover a brief
history of artificial intelligence what
is artificial intelligence types of
artificial intelligence applications of
artificial intelligence and just a quick
glimpse of the future of artificial
intelligence let us start with a brief
history of artificial intelligence let's
start with john mccarthy he was the
first one to coin the word artificial
intelligence and in 1956 had the first
artificial intelligence conference let's
jump forward to 1969 was shaky shaky was
the first general-purpose mobile robot
built and although by today's standard
he was very simple he did mark a
milestone in that we were now processing
data differently he was now able to do
things with a purpose versus just a list
of instructions albeit the list included
things like turning on and off lights
and pushing boxes around the room we're
going to move forward to
in 1997 the super computer deep blue was
designed which defeated the world's
chess champion in a game this is the
first time when we're actually seeing
the computer using logic to beat a human
doing some kind of logical in this case
a game so it's a huge milestone by ibm
to create this large computer that was
able to do that in a timely fashion
let's jump up to 2002 when we have our
first commercially successful robotic
vacuum cleaner nowadays you can go down
to the target and buy one but back in
2002 that was the first model that was
put out and finally 2005 to 2018 today
in the last more than a decade we have
speech recognition rpa dancing robots
smart homes and many more to come what i
want you to notice about this brief
history of artificial intelligence is
the compression of time in 1956 it was
just an idea and more than 10 years
later we have our shaky the first one
who's able to flip light switches and
then we go all the way to 97 where we
have deep blue and there's a lot of
little steps between 69 and 97 but it's
actually able to take on a human in
chess and beat them regularly now they
did have a lot of ties so don't think
that it won every game and then we go
only four years later we have our first
commercially successful robotic vacuum
cleaner and as we go from 2005 to 2018
we go from simple speech recognition to
very complicated able to really register
with your google voice and your siri we
have our rpa we have dancing robot smart
homes and many more things are just
coming out almost monthly in the world
of artificial intelligence so what is
artificial intelligence ai is a form of
computer science used to create
intelligent machines that can recognize
human speech objects can learn plan and
solve problems like humans and i'd like
you to focus just on that last one can
solve problems like humans as we saw
earlier we compare the computer that can
beat the chess champion it's able to the
one before that able to turn on and off
lights in the house so right now our
concept of artificial intelligence is
based primarily on our understanding of
how it interacts with humans and how we
can compare it to humans so speech
recognition that's a big one today
object detection solve problems and
learn from the given data and plan an
approach for future tasks to be done
these are all very human things that we
do to plan and solve for the future
types of artificial intelligence hi
heard you want to know the types of ai
you can imagine a little robot taking us
on a tour the first type is purely
reactive the second type is limited
memory the third type theory of mind
which is still in the process of being
invented and definitely the question of
self-awareness being the fourth which is
still not invented yet or is it let's
look at these a little closer here we
have our purely reactive he does not
have any past memory or data to work
with he takes actions reacts based on
what he sees okay it's not that tough
observes every move you can see we have
a nice game of chess going on here and
wins takes the best possible decision
purely reactive machines specialize in
one field of work only in this case we
see a chess game where they figure out
the best moves calculating all the
different moves maybe it's calculating
the next one in a row in a linear
regression model so you can figure out
the best marketing but they're very
reactionary they don't have a lot of
data they just have what's in front of
them to look at next let's look at
limited memory let's try to understand
the limited memory setup these machines
use previous data and keep adding it to
their memory so just me a good
restaurant so maybe we're looking to go
out for dinner tonight and we're not
sure where we want to eat hmm i see you
have been to kfc quite a lot in the past
week there is a kfc nearby so it goes
through the previous location data and
where they ate prior and says hmm this
is probably a good suggestion for you
tonight thanks it has enough memory or
experience to make proper decisions but
the memory is very limited this isn't
trying to
guess what a new location would be or
anything like that it just takes what it
has in front of it and goes okay this is
where you've been this is what you liked
you gave it two thumbs up one thumb down
whatever and then it goes from these
suggestions this is where i think you
should go theory of mind this kind of ai
has a capacity to understand thoughts
and emotions and interact socially a
machine based on this type is yet to be
built that human looks lonely hey human
you want to be my friend huh okay theory
of mind is a thing of the future
certainly we see a lot of the industry
poking a little bit at this as it tries
to guess how you feel about things but
most of that is still based on previous
data you know yes no two thumbs up one
thumb down theory in mind would take it
one step further in understanding the
emotions behind it and finally as we get
deep into the
sci-fi futuristic we have self-aware
self-aware machines are future
generation of machines they will be
super intelligent sentient sentient and
conscious like the terminator the good
guy in the thing or ultron or vision
from avengers for right now these are
mostly movie characters or cartoon
characters but we certainly are getting
closer to seeing them in the real world
hopefully they'll be of the type of the
good guys and not the bad guys we see
also in the artificial intelligence
sci-fi movies applications of artificial
intelligence let's take a look at some
of today's commercial business uses for
the ai we have banking fraud detection
from a large data consisting of
fraudulent and non-fraudulent
transactions the ai learns to predict if
a new transaction is fraud or not online
customer support most of the customer
support is now being automated by
artificial intelligence cyber security
using machine learning algorithms and a
lot of sample data ai can be used to
detect anomalies adapt and respond to
threats virtual assistants siri cortana
alexa and google now use voice
recognition to follow the user's
commands these are all wonderful
examples of current ais that are in the
commercial and business world and these
ones in particular have matured over the
last half a decade for instance very few
large banks in today's world would not
use banking for fraud detection or for
deciding whether it's a good person to
give a loan to or not based on their
credit scores and where they're from and
their income same thing with cyber
security detecting anomalies or online
customer support could you imagine in
say hp who has over 70 000 help pages
across 17 different languages
now they have to figure out how to do
online customer support to cover new
problems that come up and track them so
they can build new pages if they had one
person doing that that would take them a
year just to do what they need to have
posted yesterday and of course our
virtual assistants i don't know about
you but i love mine kind of like having
a private secretary without having a
private secretary future of artificial
intelligence if we see where it's at now
commercially and business-wise then
where is it going of course the
imagination's a limit on this one but
you can already see the development in
the world today for automated
transportation they'll become a common
thing maybe even early as 2020 when they
have the final release from the leaders
in the industry humans will be able to
augment themselves with robots certainly
the idea of having the robot bringing my
coffee is lovely or when i'm doing
reports or something else on the
computer it does part of that work for
me so that i'm freed up to think about
other things there will be more numbers
of smart cities as vehicles phones home
appliances will be run by ai home robots
will help elderly people with the
day-to-day work japan already has a very
in-depth program where they begun to
integrate robots helping elderly even
some of the simple things like getting
that box of cereal off the top shelf or
monitoring if they fall and need to
contact the doctor an emergency to show
up robots will take over hazardous jobs
like bomb defusing welding etc for the
future of artificial intelligence you
can see here a number of robotic uses
that are already in development people
are already working on these and trying
to bring them to us in a commercial
business fashion your own imagination
can take this to the next level or a
simple google search will show you some
of the stuff that's out there now in
addition to these i hope you enjoyed our
brief glimpse at artificial intelligence
and what it is today i want to thank you
for joining us feel free to leave a
comment down below and we'll try to
answer those comments and follow up with
you
hi there if you like this video
subscribe to the simply learn youtube
channel and click here to watch similar
videos turn it up and get certified
click here